Masktags and Multilingual Tweeting

If you speak more than one language and use Twitter internationally,
you may have run into some problems.  Most importantly, how do you
tweet in a language that some of your followers understand (Swedish,
in my case --- or even Lojban), without annoying everybody else?

(If you want the short version, scroll to the bottom for a summary.)

There are two common solutions to this.  The simplest one is to keep
mixing tweets in different languages until everybody who's annoyed by
the gibberish stops following you.  Problem solved.

The other solution is to create a separate Twitter account for each
language that you want to tweet in.  I've tried this, and while it
solves the original problem, you get a whole sample pack of new
problems in return.  Which may be fine, depending on how you use
Twitter, and how comfortable you are with Twitter-induced multiple
personality disorder.  For me, this was too awkward.  Besides, I can
only make four more psychologist appointments and then my insurance
company needs to approve any additional ones.

Fast forward about a year, and I'm having breakfast in Brighton while
talking to an old lady who for all I know may have non-Twitter-induced
multiple personality disorder.  Definitely dementia, anyway.  Anyway,
out of the blue, I suddenly realize how to solve the multilingual
tweeting problem --- without losing half of your followers, without
contacting your insurance company, and without any modifications to
Twitter itself.

The idea is simple.  I call it "masktags".  It's similar to hashtags,
only it doesn't involve a hash, and it masks stuff.

To understand it, though, you have to remember how @-replies work in
Twitter: if you're following me, and I send an @-reply to someone, it
only shows up in your timeline if *you're* following the *other*
person *as well*.  That's the key.

Now, I've set up an account called @inswedish, which I recommend
everybody who speaks Swedish to follow.  It doesn't matter whether or
not you intend to use it directly: Someone who you follow may use it,
and then you'll miss their tweets unless you follow @inswedish.

(That point deserves to be made again: If you speak Swedish, then you
should follow @inswedish, or you will miss stuff if and when someone
you follow starts using the "@inswedish" masktag.  Note that the
@inswedish account itself will not send out any tweets.  It is simply
an empty and unused dummy account.)

Finally, tweeting in Swedish without annoying your non-Swedish
followers is as simple as starting your tweet with "@inswedish".

It can't get much simpler than that, even in theory.

Now we just have to come up with masktags for all the other annoying
things people talk about on Twitter.  Like sports.  Or politics.


Summary

If you understand Swedish and use Twitter, start following @inswedish.

If you usually tweet in English but want to say something in Swedish
without annoying your non-Swedish followers, start your tweet with
"@inswedish".  (When doing this for the first time, it's probably a
good idea to let people know in advance so that anyone who understands
Swedish can start following @inswedish if they don't already.)
